So, welcome back!
Hopefully you've got your Version Control System all setup and working nicely. If
that's out of your depth, then please just do a little bit of your own research and ask in the discussions.
And I'm pretty confident that you can get SourceTree installed. Once you have it installed,
or your favorite Version Control System, then pick up from there! So, we're
going to be talking about ignoring Unreal derived files, so in this video,
I want to explain that derived files can be easily rebuilt.
Derived files are things that the system uses to speed up, for example, the opening
of Unreal or the playing of the game, but they could be rebuilt.
Other files, like the code you write or assets you create from scratch or level layout,
etc., they can't be easily rebuilt. That's the real value, that's the gold you're creating
and we don't want to lose that! So, we want to ignore most derived
files, for the sake of version control,
and the question is, which folder to ignore in version control.
We basically don't want to add everything to version control, it will slow
it down and it will make things complicated. If you
exclude things automatically, in certain folders, then everything will be faster,
your databases will be smaller, you'll take up less disk space, and everything will just
be a lot simpler. So, we'll end up showing your our starting
.gitignore file for Unreal and how we're going to configure that. And if you're using a different
Version Control System, pretty much the same file should work.
OK cool! So, what are the derived folders in Unreal,
and what does it even mean? Well, I'll come back to this slide in a moment. Let's just look at it! Here
we are at the Unreal Launcher. This may look a tiny bit different to your, because I
think last time we looked at the Unreal we were back at 4.10.1
or a lower version, but get yourself up to date. There's a button up here somewhere that'll let you update the
version. You want to be on 4.10.2 or higher, and you'll also
notice that I've got a vault down here with some things I've been experimenting with. You can
get these from the Market Place and the Learn Tab. You can go ahead and get some of these projects,
if you wanted to, but otherwise, this should be pretty familiar. What we want to do is just launch
the engine. So, we're in the Epic Games Launcher launching, for the
first time in earnest, the Unreal Editor. I'm actually going to start setting up our
folders and our everything now, and we'll get the version control issues sorted, so that from
now on we can start being grownups and using version control. So, we're going to make a new
project for this game. It's going to be a C++, Basic Code project, With
Starter Content. So, C++, Basic Code, With Starter Content.
Now, where am I going to store this guy? Inside my repos
folder sure. The interesting thing is, in Unreal you can't start with numbers.
I actually want to start with a number. Project names can't begin with a number, they
must begin with an alphanumeric character. So, I go over to my repos here,
what I'm going to do is make a folder and call it
03_BuildingEscape, like that, and then,
back in Unreal I'm going to point it to that directory, repos,
03_BuildingEscape. And then, inside that I'm going to
create a new one called BuildingEscape, I think. OK, so
everything is happy! So, we get a subfolder, which is absolutely fine! So, let's go ahead and create that folder
now. Now when it comes to version control, you are OK to
either create a repository folder, which you can do in SourceTree, I'll show you in a
moment, or just to create your game folder like this. It really doesn't matter which order you do that in
yet. It will matter before you make your first, what we call, commit,
because we want to make sure we're ignoring the right things, and these .gitignore
files, that tell the system what to ignore, only take a count of
new stuff, not stuff that's already being tracked, so that'll all come
clear in a second. While this builds, let's take a look at what it's building. Here's our Building
Escape, here's the subfolder we made. Now, have a look at this subfolder.
What I'm going to do is ignore Visual Studio for a minute. I'm actually going to go up a level and I'm going
to use TreeSize Free, to map what's being built. If you don't
have tree size or a similar tool, then you can just take a look here for
"treesize" and treesize here. Jam-
Software, OK that's an example of a tool. Let's take a look at it! TreeSize Free!
What has Unreal just built? Well, 1.4
Gig of stuff! 734 Megabytes in something called Intermediates,
600 Megabytes in content, basically, all that is the starter content we selected,
and then, it's got Binaries and various other things. So, we need to decide
what we're going to be storing here and keeping track of and what we're not. Alright, so let
me show you a cool thing! The cool thing, this is Unreal, it's done a load of
building to increase the speed that it opens. I'm going to close it.The same applies
to Visual Studio, by the way. If we actually build the project there in Visual Studio
and go and look at our folders, you'll see here,
BuildingEscape.VC.db. You see that guy there? And that's also
going to swell up and grow in size, and that's another one of these derived
files. So, if you were to do a Google search
for "unreal directory structure",
for example, to try and make sense of all this, what do we get?
I'm going to give you the short answer, but I want to make sure you know where to go and get the detailed answer.
The detailed answer is in the Unreal Directory structure. Let me explain what all of these folders
do here, OK. I'm going to do my best to explain it for you now.
What you need to know, at this stage, is the Binaries,
the Build, the Intermediate, and the Saved folders
do not need to be kept. With Unreal closed, Unreal Engine
itself, not the launcher we don't care about the launcher, but if the engine is closed you can safely delete
all four of those folder. I'm going to prove it, I'm going to do it, while Visual Studio is fiddling around!
Then, I'm going to go back and reopen the BuildingEscape project.
And watch what happens! The following modules are missing, these .dll's, Dynamic Link Libraries.
Would you like to rebuild them? Yes, please. And as we start to rebuild them,
it starts to put back in our Intermediate, and you'll see it building other folders.
So, what are these folders? It's in your slides, if you're ever not sure. You're derived folder
in Unreal are Binaries, Build, DerivedDataCache,
if you see it, Intermediate, and Saved. They're the folders we want
to get rid of. For a full list, there's that link back to the directory structure
that I showed you. OK, so
the other thing that happens and that we need to get rid of is these Visual Studio files. If
I close Visual Studio now, you'll see that we have a database file that's
243 Megabytes large! Now, the good thing about that is,
if we reopen... Sorry, I didn't mean to open Unreal then. If we reopen the
Visual Studio solution, that you're familiar with from the previous section,
it opens very quickly and it's ready to go. The bad thing is, it's taking up
243 Meg. So, this is another derived file, so this in summary is what
you can delete, these guys. OK, Binaries, Build, Intermediate, Saved,
and this VC.db file. So,
how do we add this to version control and then ignore
these files. I'm going to make that the subject of the next video, so if you're an expert on
version control, then this is very simple for you. You just make a .gitignore
ignoring these folders. If you're not, I'm going to do a quick primer video for those who aren't, to show people
how to ignore files, when they need to. You don't have to get this absolutely right, from the beginning,
but we do want to make a good start, so that we don't start tracking all these
massive folders. Look, by the way, at the difference in size
when we delete these folders. Let me take a look at
the size of this folder now.
1.56 Gig. Alright, let me go in, making sure that both
the Unreal Engine and
Visual Studio are closed. We don't want to be deleting files when they are closed. Let's delete Binaries,
Build, Intermediate, and Saved. I don't mind repeating myself on this, because these are the things you want
to start getting your eye full. And the Visual Studio database file.
Now, let's go back and see how big this folder is!
Now, it's only 621 Meg, and remember that nearly all of
that is under Content, StarterContent, which is basically
all of it. So, actually our project is pretty much empty, which is what you'd expect, because we haven't added
any value yet! We haven't been in the Unreal Editor doing anything! A really good
question to ask yourself is, have I really created that much data? Have I,
sitting at the mouse and keyboard, really created hundreds of megabytes of data? And the answer is no,
you haven't had time to make that much real data! There may be a load of derived
data or data like this StarterContent, which we might not want to exclude,
which is available from elsewhere, but we haven't made anything yet.
We haven't created any value, therefore there's nothing to store
that we can't recreate later. I hope that point kind of comes across. If you're using a microphone,
like I am now, or a camera or a video camera, then yes you might be creating many
megabytes of data, but if you're just sitting at a computer pushing buttons, you're generally
not creating data that fast or new meaning that fast.
OK, hopefully that's got the point across for this video, and I look forward to seeing you in the next
video, where we'll actually setup our .gitignore and be ready to start making a game!